This project implements a simple terminal version of the game Mine Sweeper! The C++ file contains the code to make the game work. Download playme.exe and run it in a terminal or command line to play the game on a 10x10 "board".

# Planning Process
To make this project, I first thought about how I wanted the game to be interacted with. On each turn, a player should be able to simply enter the row and column they wish to test for a bomb, and after the game checks the location it should reveal the board according to if it was a bomb or not. If the coordinate was a bomb, then the game ends and reveals the full layout of the board. If it was not a bomb, the board should only reveal the given coordinate and any neighbors around it that were also not bombs, but may have neighbors who are bombs. If any of the newly revealed tiles have at least one bomb among their neighbors, then that coordinate should display the number of neighbors that are a bomb. With this in mind, I have a few key features to consider:
- Taking input from a player, two numbers in the command line for a row and column
- Discovering a bomb should immediately end the game and reveal all tiles
- There is a "board" object which contains all rows and columns
- The "board" is made up of individual parts, and each part has some likelihood of being a bomb

# Building the Board
Taking these into account, I started with the last bullet and made "tiles" as the individual components of my "board". For the game to work, each tile needs to have some way of knowing if it is a bomb or not, how many bombs are among its neighbors, and a "switch" to determine if that tile should be visible yet based on the player's moves. The "tile" struct therefore contains three values: a boolean to indicate if it is a bomb, a boolean to indicate if it should currently be visible, and an integer to indicate how many of its neighbors are bombs.

With this basic tile structure it is easy to use them to create the board. For this I wrote a class called "Minesweeper" which has some constant number of rows and columns. In C++, it makes the most sense to me to use vectors to create the rows and columns of tiles, so along with an integer for the number of rows and an integer for the number of columns, the class has a vector of tile vectors. Each vector of tiles within the vector represents a row of the board, from the top or first row to the last or bottom row. This makes it easy to index over the board according to a player's input, as the row they select will correspond to the index of the vector of vectors, and the column they select will correspond to the index within the selected row vector.

# Planting the Bombs
Now there is a board, but the tiles can't all be the same. First I decided roughly what percent of the board I wanted to contain bombs, which is currently configured as 15%. When the Minesweeper class is constructed, it takes the number of rows and creates that number of tile vectors, and for each tile created it takes the modulo of 100 on the rand() function. If the result is less than 15, then that tile's boolean to mark it as a bomb is set to True. All tiles check their eight surrounding neighbors for bombs and save the total number, and all tiles by default are set to not be visible. At this point, the board is built with all the relevant information. There are a set number of rows and columns and row * columns number of tiles, of which roughly 15% are bombs. All tiles know how many of their neighbors are bombs, and since there has been no interaction from the player yet they are all set to not be visible. Now this all needs to be translated to visuals.

# Viewing the Board
First I'll define what it means for a tile to not be visible. When a tile is not visible, they should simply display the character 'X' - so when the game begins, it will only show rows * columns 'X's. But they shouldn't simply be lined up right across the terminal, it should look like a board, therefore when displaying the Minesweeper as a board in the terminal it prints each "row" in its vector of tile vectors on a separate line. Assuming the tile is not a bomb, a visible tile should display the number of bombs among its neighbors, 0-8. If the tile is in fact a bomb, then that not only ends the game and all future turns, but it should display the entire board, and represent bombs as the character 'O'. I considered using 'B', but I prefer my bombs to be cartoonishly round. To avoid confusion when the full board is displayed, I represent tiles which have no bombs among their neighbors as '-' since, '0' looks fairly similar to 'O' at first glance. With this, the board is complete - it has all the relevant tiles, the bombs are placed somewhat randomly, and each tile is set up to know when it should display itself or not.

# Time to Play!
The only details left are how to connect the player's moves with the board. For this, I simply use the prompts "row?" and "col?" to collect the row and column they would like to reveal on each move. The game continues taking this input until either the player reveals a bomb, or when the only tiles that remain are bombs. If the player makes a safe move, then they will reveal the selected tile and any neighboring safe tiles, until encountering one with at least one bomb as a neighbor, slowly revealing the board. When the player reveals all the tiles other than the bombs or reveals a bomb, the game will end and the terminal will stop taking input.
